docs/src/content/docs/configuration/retry-settings.mdx, before:

---
title: Retry settings
description: Configure automatic retry and exponential backoff
---

sparqlite includes automatic retry with exponential backoff for transient errors. This helps your application handle temporary failures gracefully.

## Default behavior

By default, sparqlite will:
- Retry up to 5 times on transient errors
- Use exponential backoff with a factor of 0.5

```python
from sparqlite import SPARQLClient

# Default settings: max_retries=5, backoff_factor=0.5
with SPARQLClient("https://dbpedia.org/sparql") as client:
    result = client.query(query)
```

## Configuring retries

### max_retries

Set the maximum number of retry attempts:

```python
# Retry up to 3 times
with SPARQLClient("https://dbpedia.org/sparql", max_retries=3) as client:
    result = client.query(query)

# Disable retries entirely
with SPARQLClient("https://dbpedia.org/sparql", max_retries=0) as client:
    result = client.query(query)
```

### backoff_factor

Control the delay between retries. The wait time is calculated as:

```
wait_time = backoff_factor * (2 ^ attempt)
```

Example with `backoff_factor=0.5`:
- Attempt 1: wait 1 second (0.5 * 2^1)
- Attempt 2: wait 2 seconds (0.5 * 2^2)
- Attempt 3: wait 4 seconds (0.5 * 2^3)
- Attempt 4: wait 8 seconds (0.5 * 2^4)
- Attempt 5: wait 16 seconds (0.5 * 2^5)

```python
# Faster retries
with SPARQLClient("https://dbpedia.org/sparql", backoff_factor=0.25) as client:
    result = client.query(query)

# Slower retries
with SPARQLClient("https://dbpedia.org/sparql", backoff_factor=1.0) as client:
    result = client.query(query)
```

## What triggers retry

sparqlite automatically retries on these transient errors:

| Error type | Description |
|------------|-------------|
| HTTP 5xx | Server errors (500, 502, 503, etc.) |
| Connection failure | Cannot connect to the endpoint |
| Timeout | Request timed out |

## What does NOT trigger retry

These errors fail immediately without retry:

| Error type | Description |
|------------|-------------|
| HTTP 400 | Query syntax error (QueryError) |
| HTTP 4xx | Client errors (401, 403, 404, etc.) |
| Parse error | Invalid response format |

Commit message:

feat: add timeout parameter to SPARQLClient [release]

docs/src/content/docs/configuration/retry-settings.mdx, after:

---
title: Retry settings
description: Configure automatic retry and exponential backoff
---

sparqlite includes automatic retry with exponential backoff for transient errors. This helps your application handle temporary failures gracefully.

## Default behavior

By default, sparqlite will:
- Retry up to 5 times on transient errors
- Use exponential backoff with a factor of 0.5

```python
from sparqlite import SPARQLClient

# Default settings: max_retries=5, backoff_factor=0.5
with SPARQLClient("https://dbpedia.org/sparql") as client:
    result = client.query(query)
```

## Configuring retries

### max_retries

Set the maximum number of retry attempts:

```python
# Retry up to 3 times
with SPARQLClient("https://dbpedia.org/sparql", max_retries=3) as client:
    result = client.query(query)

# Disable retries entirely
with SPARQLClient("https://dbpedia.org/sparql", max_retries=0) as client:
    result = client.query(query)
```

### backoff_factor

Control the delay between retries. The wait time is calculated as:

```
wait_time = backoff_factor * (2 ^ attempt)
```

Example with `backoff_factor=0.5`:
- Attempt 1: wait 1 second (0.5 * 2^1)
- Attempt 2: wait 2 seconds (0.5 * 2^2)
- Attempt 3: wait 4 seconds (0.5 * 2^3)
- Attempt 4: wait 8 seconds (0.5 * 2^4)
- Attempt 5: wait 16 seconds (0.5 * 2^5)

```python
# Faster retries
with SPARQLClient("https://dbpedia.org/sparql", backoff_factor=0.25) as client:
    result = client.query(query)

# Slower retries
with SPARQLClient("https://dbpedia.org/sparql", backoff_factor=1.0) as client:
    result = client.query(query)
```

### timeout

Set a timeout in seconds for each request. Default is `None` (no timeout):

```python
# 30 second timeout
with SPARQLClient("https://dbpedia.org/sparql", timeout=30) as client:
    result = client.query(query)
```

Timeout errors trigger the retry mechanism.

## What triggers retry

sparqlite automatically retries on these transient errors:

| Error type | Description |
|------------|-------------|
| HTTP 5xx | Server errors (500, 502, 503, etc.) |
| Connection failure | Cannot connect to the endpoint |
| Timeout | Request timed out |

## What does NOT trigger retry

These errors fail immediately without retry:

| Error type | Description |
|------------|-------------|
| HTTP 400 | Query syntax error (QueryError) |
| HTTP 4xx | Client errors (401, 403, 404, etc.) |
| Parse error | Invalid response format |
